Next, let's talk about UML or unified modeling language.
We use UML to understand and to communicate about design patterns and software solutions.
I'm mentioning it in this course because I want to discuss a few design patterns in the next section,
and these diagrams give us a shorthand, a way to communicate these concepts more quickly and more visually.
Some benefits of using UML are It allows for faster planning and clearer communication with your team
members, and during development it helps focus you on the given solution.
There's many different types of diagramming and even within Usmle there's many types of usmle diagrams.
Most of what I'm showing here will be class diagrams, the way that classes interact from a very high
level.
I'm not spelling out the individual methods and variables as we sometimes do in these diagrams.
Instead, it's a high level relationship between the classes such that does this one class extend another
class using inheritance or does it compose another class?
Here?
In this picture, we see the example of the white arrow indicating inheritance.
So within unity, for example, if you have a class that extends mono behavior, this would be the appropriate
diagram to use.
So we see here a few more examples.
Just understanding the basics of this is all we need to move forward to understand further diagrams.
The white Arrow indicates inheritance.
The dotted line with the white arrow means we're implementing an interface and the black diamond and
black arrow indicate composition and reference.
Let's have fun here with a silly example.
A Toyota car is a type of car, so that makes sense.
To use the inheritance if you're familiar with interfaces, you know, we often begin the type name
with an eye and we describe what sort of behavior is possible.
So we could say that the wheel here is a class that implements the eye Rotatable interface composition
and reference are quite similar.
It's both a class using another class in some sort of way.
The key difference here is that composition indicates that they have the same life cycle.
In this case, if the Toyota car was to vanish, the wheels would vanish with it.
We understand that wheels are part of it, connected in a shared life cycle.
However, that Toyota car may also use a system that uses GPS satellite.
So it's also using this.
But we understand if the car were to vanish, the GPS satellite probably continues to exist.
And with just these four types of lines, we can create lots of software solutions and clearly explain
them.
Over my career, I've seen diagramming done in a variety of ways.
Those who are familiar with UML and lean heavily into it can do sketches on paper or use tools online
that help you connect up these lines and diagram them.
People who are not familiar with such an official way to diagram certainly can take a piece of paper
or the back of a napkin and sketch out their ideas freely.
But the more of us that agree on some sort of a system for the language, the more easily we can communicate.
UML is a standard that's quite popular.
It's existed for a long time in computer science and it's worth giving a look.
Whether you choose to learn from UML here and diagram yourself or you just learn enough to follow along
in the course, that's fine with me.
We'll see a little bit more about how UML applies to some certain design patterns.
Next.
Thanks.